# Chase.CrashReporter C# Library API Documentation

The Chase.CrashReporter is a C# library for reporting and handling crash events in your application.

## Installation

This is not a part of this documentation. Please follow the official library installation instructions.

## How to Use

### Initializing

First, you need to setup the `CrashReport.Reporter`. Here is an example on how to do it:

```csharp
using Chase.CrashReporter;

CrashReport.Reporter = CrashHandleBuilder.Create()
    .WriteToFile("crash-reports") // The directory to store crash reports.
    .IncludeStackTrace() // This will include the stack trace in the crash report.
    .UseApplicationName("Your Application Name")
    .UseApplicationVersion(new Version(1, 0, 0, 0))
    .WriteToConsole()
    .WriteToDebug() 
    .UseGithubRepository("YourGithubUsername", "YourGithubRepository")
    .UseProcessHandles() 
    .Build(); 
```

The `CrashHandleBuilder` is used to configure the way that crash reports will be generated and handled by the application.

Lets break down each part:

1. `WriteToFile(directoryPath)`:
   This specifies the directory where the crash reports will be stored. If the directory does not already exist, it will be created.
    ```csharp
    .WriteToFile("crash-reports")
    ```

2. `IncludeStackTrace()`:
   This will include the stack trace into crash report which can help a lot when debugging.
    ```csharp
    .IncludeStackTrace()
    ```

3. `UseApplicationName(appName)`:
   This will set the application name in the crash report which can be helpful especially for end users to know which application caused the issue.
    ```csharp
    .UseApplicationName("Example")
    ```

4. `UseApplicationVersion(versionNumber)`:
   This will include the application version in the crash report which can be essential for debugging, especially when multiple versions of a software are in use.
    ```csharp
    .UseApplicationVersion(new Version(1, 0, 0, 0))
    ```

5. `WriteToConsole()`:
   This will write the crash report to the console. It can prove to be helpful for debugging purposes, especially in a development environment where console output can easily be viewed.
    ```csharp
    .WriteToConsole()
    ```

6. `WriteToDebug()`:
   This will write the crash report to the debug log. Again, this is probably more beneficial for a developer running the software in a debug mode from a development environment.
    ```csharp
    .WriteToDebug()
    ```

7. `UseGithubRepository(userName, repoName)`:
   This will link the GitHub repository in the crash report, e.g. for creating issues or bug reports.
    ```csharp
    .UseGithubRepository("Drew-Chase", "Chase.CrashReporter")
    ```

8. `UseProcessHandles()`:
   This will hook the crash reporter to catch unhandled exceptions. It provides a standard way for applications to handle unpredicted or fatal errors.
    ```csharp
    .UseProcessHandles()
    ```

9. `Build()`:
   This will finalize~~~~ the configuration and build the crash reporter.
    ```csharp
    .Build()
    ```

All these configurations are optional and can be used according to application needs. The settings set up here will be applied for all the forthcoming crash reports, unless changed.

### Reporting a Crash

You can report crash events manually as shown in the example below:

```csharp
using System.IO;

// Report an IOError exception.
CrashReport.Report(new IOException("An error occurred while reading the file."));

// Report a null exception.
CrashReport.Report(null);

// Report a null exception and exit the application with an exit code of 89.
CrashReport.ReportAndExit(exception: null, exitCode: 89);
```

Crashes that go unhandled will automatically generate a crash report if the `UseProcessHandles` option is present. For instance, when trying to read from a non-existent file:

```csharp
using System.IO;

File.ReadAllText("non-existent-file.txt"); 
```

This will generate a crash report.

Please note that these examples are for demonstration purposes only, as including a `null` exception or forcing an error would not make sense in a production setting.

### Fetching the Crash Reports

Crash reports generated by Chase.CrashReporter can be fetched from the directory that you have specified while initializing `CrashHandleBuilder` if no directory was specified it will default to the path of the executable.

### Contributing

To contribute to the project, please follow the guidelines mentioned in the GitHub repository of the project.
